README.md, before:

<div align="center">
  <h1 align="center">✨ Project Hypatia</h1>
  <p align="center">
    An AI-Powered Scientific Discovery Platform, right in your browser.
    <br />
    <a href="#about-the-project"><strong>Explore the features »</strong></a>
    <br />
    <br />
  </p>
    <p align="center">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/React-19-blue?logo=react&logoColor=white" alt="React">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Bootstrap-5.3-purple?logo=bootstrap&logoColor=white" alt="Bootstrap">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Gemini_API-v2.5-4285F4?logo=google&logoColor=white" alt="Gemini API">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-yellow.svg" alt="License: MIT">
  </p>
</div>

---

### **Note: This is a sophisticated frontend-only application that runs entirely in your browser. All data is securely stored on your local machine using IndexedDB. No backend or sign-up is required.**

---

## Table of Contents

- [About The Project](#about-the-project)
- [Key Features](#key-features)
- [The HMAP Philosophy](#the-hmap-philosophy-human-mediated-agentic-process)
- [The Scientific Method & Hypatia](#the-scientific-method--hypatia)
- [Technology Stack](#technology-stack)
- [Getting Started](#getting-started)
- [Usage Guide](#usage-guide)
  - [The 10-Step Workflow](#1-the-10-step-workflow)
  - [Fine-Tuning the AI](#2-fine-tuning-the-ai)
  - [The Experiment Runner (Step 6)](#3-the-experiment-runner-step-6)
- [Contributing](#contributing)
- [License](#license)

---

## About The Project

Project Hypatia is your digital lab partner, an AI-powered platform designed to assist researchers, students, and citizen scientists throughout the entire scientific discovery process. It provides a structured, 10-step workflow, leveraging the Google Gemini API to streamline every stage of research, from question formulation to a publication-ready draft. It acts as a comprehensive digital lab notebook, guiding users from an initial spark of an idea to a fully-formed publication draft, all within a single, cohesive interface. The goal is to democratize the research process, offering a structured yet flexible environment for scientific exploration.

<br>

## Key Features

-   ✅ **Local-First Storage**: All experiment data is stored directly in your browser's **IndexedDB via Dexie.js**—no backend, no sign-ups, no data leaves your machine.
-   🗂️ **Experiment Dashboard**: A central hub to create, view, and manage all your research projects.
-   🗺️ **Guided 10-Step Workflow**: A structured path from idea to publication, with each step contextually building upon the previous ones.
-   ⚙️ **Fine-Tune AI Parameters**: On a per-step basis, adjust AI settings like a peer reviewer's persona, the level of detail in a methodology, or the novelty of a hypothesis.
-   ✏️ **Editable Outputs**: All AI-generated text can be edited and saved, giving you full control over the research narrative.
-   🔬 **Interactive Experimentation (Step 6)**: A versatile experimental hub with three modes:
    -   **Custom Code Simulation**: A sandboxed JavaScript environment with a `hypatia.finish()` hook.
    -   **Direct Data Upload**: For offline experiments, with AI-powered template generation.
    -   **AI-Powered Data Synthesis**: For conceptual testing without needing to code or collect data.
-   🧠 **Advanced AI Integration**:
    -   **Google Search Grounding**: The Literature Review step provides up-to-date, cited sources.
    -   **JSON Mode & Live Charts**: The Data Analyzer uses a strict JSON schema and Chart.js to create live data visualizations.
    -   **Streaming Responses**: AI text streams in token-by-token for a responsive and engaging UI.
-   📚 **In-App Documentation**: This complete user manual is accessible from any screen in the app via the help icon.

---

## The HMAP Philosophy (Human-Mediated Agentic Process)

Project Hypatia is built on the principle of the **Human-Mediated Agentic Process (HMAP)**. This is a framework for human-AI collaboration that emphasizes human agency and control throughout the research lifecycle.

-   **Human as the Director**: You are the principal investigator. The AI is your highly capable, but subordinate, research assistant. It suggests, drafts, and analyzes, but you make the final decisions.
-   **AI as the Agent**: The AI agent (Gemini) executes complex tasks based on your instructions. This includes literature searches, hypothesis generation, data synthesis, and drafting content.
-   **Mediation as the Interface**: The Hypatia application is the "mediation" layer. It structures the interaction, provides tools for control (like fine-tuning and editing), and ensures the workflow remains logical and scientifically rigorous.

HMAP is not about letting an AI run the entire research process. It's about augmenting human intellect and creativity by offloading the tedious and time-consuming aspects of research to an AI partner, freeing you up to focus on critical thinking, interpretation, and discovery.

---

## The Scientific Method & Hypatia

The traditional scientific method is a systematic process for inquiry. Project Hypatia's 10-step workflow is designed to mirror and enhance this process.

| Scientific Method Stage | Corresponding Hypatia Step(s)                                   | How Hypatia Enhances It                                                                                               |
| :---------------------- | :-------------------------------------------------------------- | :-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| **Observation/Idea**      | `Dashboard` (Create Experiment)                                 | Provides a structured way to capture and describe your initial idea.                                                  |
| **Research Question**   | **1.** Research Question                                        | AI helps refine a broad idea into a specific, testable question.                                                      |
| **Background Research** | **2.** Literature Review                                        | Uses Google Search for up-to-date, relevant sources and summarizes them to identify gaps in existing knowledge.      |
| **Hypothesis**          | **3.** Hypothesis Formulation                                   | AI generates multiple, diverse hypotheses based on the literature, which you can then select or refine.               |
| **Experiment Design**   | **4.** Methodology Design & **5.** Data Collection Plan         | AI drafts a detailed, step-by-step experimental protocol and a corresponding data collection plan for you to approve. |
| **Experimentation**     | **6.** Experiment Runner / Data Synthesis                       | A flexible environment to simulate, upload, or synthesize data to test your hypothesis.                               |
| **Data Analysis**       | **7.** Data Analyzer                                            | AI performs statistical analysis on your data, providing a summary and interactive visualizations.                    |
| **Conclusion**          | **8.** Conclusion Drawing                                       | AI helps you interpret the results, state whether the hypothesis was supported, and discuss implications.             |
| **Communication**       | **9.** Peer Review Simulation & **10.** Publication Exporter | AI simulates a critical peer review to strengthen your arguments and then assembles the entire project into a draft paper. |

---

## Technology Stack

This project is built with modern, accessible web technologies.

-   **Frontend**: [React](https://react.dev/) (v19), HTML5, CSS3
-   **Styling**: [Bootstrap 5.3](https://getbootstrap.com/) & [Bootstrap Icons](https://icons.getbootstrap.com/)
-   **AI**: [Google Gemini API](https://ai.google.dev/) (`gemini-2.5-flash`)
-   **Charts**: [Chart.js](https://www.chartjs.org/)
-   **Client-Side Storage**: [Dexie.js](https://dexie.org/) (IndexedDB Wrapper)
-   **Markdown Rendering**: `marked` library

<br>

## Getting Started

To get a local copy up and running, simply follow these steps.

1.  Download the repository files (`index.html`, `index.tsx`, `README.md`, etc.).
2.  Open the `index.html` file in a modern web browser (like Chrome, Firefox, or Edge).
3.  That's it! The application will load and be ready to use.

<br>

## Usage Guide

### 1. The 10-Step Workflow

When you open the app, you start on the landing page and can navigate to the **Dashboard**. From there, you can create a new experiment or select an existing one. This will take you to the main workspace, which guides you through the scientific method. The AI's output at each step informs the next, creating a cohesive research narrative.

**Full Control**: You have full control over the AI's output.
-   On any step where text has been generated, you will see an **<i class="bi bi-pencil-square"></i> Edit** button.
-   Clicking it turns the text into an editable field. Make your changes and click the **<i class="bi bi-check-lg"></i> Save** button.
-   Your saved version becomes the new "official" output for that step and will be used to provide context for all future AI generations.

### 2. Fine-Tuning the AI

In each step of the workspace, you can click the **<i class="bi bi-sliders"></i> Fine-Tune AI** button. This opens a modal with parameters specific to that step, allowing you to guide the AI's behavior more precisely. For example, you can change the persona of the peer reviewer in Step 9, demand a more detailed methodology in Step 4, or ask for more novel hypotheses in Step 3.

### 3. The Experiment Runner (Step 6)

This step offers three powerful paths forward, accessible via tabs:

**A) Run Custom Code:**
1.  **Write Code**: In the "Run Custom Code" tab, you'll find a text editor where you can write your simulation in JavaScript.
2.  **Debug**: Use `console.log()` to print messages to the output panel below the editor.
3.  **Finish the Experiment**: When your code has generated the results, call the special `hypatia.finish()` function to pass the data to the next step.

```javascript
// This special function connects your code to the app's workflow.
// It takes two string arguments: data and a summary.

hypatia.finish(data, summary);

// EXAMPLE:
const csvData = "time,temperature\n0,20\n1,22\n2,25";
const summaryText = "Simulated temperature increase over 2 seconds.";

hypatia.finish(csvData, summaryText);
```

**B) Upload Own Data:**
-   If you've conducted your experiment offline, use this tab to upload the results.
-   You can first click **Download Template** to have the AI generate a CSV header based on your Data Collection Plan from Step 5, ensuring correct formatting.
-   Then, choose your file and click **Use This Data for Analysis** to send it to Step 7.

**C) Skip & Synthesize Results:**
-   If you don't want to write code or upload data, simply click the **Skip & Synthesize Results** button (available in the "Run Custom Code" tab).
-   The AI will read your methodology and data plans from the previous steps.
-   It will then generate a plausible, synthetic dataset that logically follows from your research design.
-   This synthetic data is then automatically passed to Step 7 for analysis.

---

## Contributing

Contributions are what make the open-source community such an amazing place to learn, inspire, and create. Any contributions you make are **greatly appreciated**.

If you have a suggestion that would make this better, please fork the repo and create a pull request. You can also simply open an issue with the tag "enhancement".

1.  Fork the Project
2.  Create your Feature Branch (`git checkout -b feature/AmazingFeature`)
3.  Commit your Changes (`git commit -m 'Add some AmazingFeature'`)
4.  Push to the Branch (`git push origin feature/AmazingFeature`)
5.  Open a Pull Request

---

## License

Distributed under the MIT License.

Commit message:

feat: Refactor core services and configurations
This commit reorganizes the core logic and configuration into dedicated services and config files. It introduces new interfaces and utility functions for managing experiments, AI interactions, and data storage. The goal is to improve code modularity, maintainability, and testability.

Key changes include:
- Extracting AI initialization, prompt generation, and context retrieval into `services.ts`.
- Defining reusable configurations for scientific fields, workflow steps, and tuning parameters in `config.ts`.
- Moving base64 assets to `assets.ts` for cleaner import.
- Updating `index.tsx` to leverage the new service structure and configurations.
- Enhancing the `README.md` to reflect the improved multi-modal experimentation features.
- Adjusting test files to align with the new modular structure.

README.md, after:

<div align="center">
  <h1 align="center">✨ Project Hypatia</h1>
  <p align="center">
    An AI-Powered Scientific Discovery Platform, right in your browser.
    <br />
    <a href="#about-the-project"><strong>Explore the features »</strong></a>
    <br />
    <br />
  </p>
    <p align="center">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/React-19-blue?logo=react&logoColor=white" alt="React">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Bootstrap-5.3-purple?logo=bootstrap&logoColor=white" alt="Bootstrap">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Gemini_API-v2.5-4285F4?logo=google&logoColor=white" alt="Gemini API">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-yellow.svg" alt="License: MIT">
  </p>
</div>

---

### **Note: This is a sophisticated frontend-only application that runs entirely in your browser. All data is securely stored on your local machine using IndexedDB. No backend or sign-up is required.**

---

## Table of Contents

- [About The Project](#about-the-project)
- [Key Features](#key-features)
- [The HMAP Philosophy](#the-hmap-philosophy-human-mediated-agentic-process)
- [The Scientific Method & Hypatia](#the-scientific-method--hypatia)
- [Technology Stack](#technology-stack)
- [Getting Started](#getting-started)
- [Usage Guide](#usage-guide)
  - [The 10-Step Workflow](#1-the-10-step-workflow)
  - [Fine-Tuning the AI](#2-fine-tuning-the-ai)
  - [The Experiment Runner (Step 6)](#3-the-experiment-runner-step-6)
- [Contributing](#contributing)
- [License](#license)

---

## About The Project

Project Hypatia is your digital lab partner, an AI-powered platform designed to assist researchers, students, and citizen scientists throughout the entire scientific discovery process. It provides a structured, 10-step workflow, leveraging the Google Gemini API to streamline every stage of research, from question formulation to a publication-ready draft. It acts as a comprehensive digital lab notebook, guiding users from an initial spark of an idea to a fully-formed publication draft, all within a single, cohesive interface. The goal is to democratize the research process, offering a structured yet flexible environment for scientific exploration.

<br>

## Key Features

-   ✅ **Local-First Storage**: All experiment data is stored directly in your browser's **IndexedDB via Dexie.js**—no backend, no sign-ups, no data leaves your machine.
-   🗂️ **Experiment Dashboard**: A central hub to create, view, and manage all your research projects.
-   🗺️ **Guided 10-Step Workflow**: A structured path from idea to publication, with each step contextually building upon the previous ones.
-   ⚙️ **Fine-Tune AI Parameters**: On a per-step basis, adjust AI settings like a peer reviewer's persona, the level of detail in a methodology, or the novelty of a hypothesis.
-   ✏️ **Editable Outputs**: All AI-generated text can be edited and saved, giving you full control over the research narrative.
-   🔬 **Multi-Modal Experimentation (Step 6)**: A versatile experimental hub with three distinct, AI-powered modes:
    -   **AI-Generated Code Simulation**: The AI writes a starting JavaScript simulation based on your plan, which you can run, edit, and debug.
    -   **Dynamic Manual Data Entry**: The AI generates a custom data-entry table based on your data collection plan for easy manual input.
    -   **AI-Powered Data Synthesis**: For conceptual testing, the AI can estimate and generate a complete, plausible dataset.
-   🧠 **Advanced AI Integration**:
    -   **Google Search Grounding**: The Literature Review step uses Google Search to provide up-to-date, cited sources with URLs.
    -   **AI-Powered Debugging**: The code simulator includes an "Auto-Fix with AI" button to help resolve runtime errors.
    -   **JSON Mode & Live Charts**: The Data Analyzer uses a strict JSON schema and Chart.js to create live data visualizations.
    -   **Streaming Responses**: AI text streams in token-by-token for a responsive and engaging UI.
-   📚 **In-App Documentation**: This complete user manual is accessible from any screen in the app via the help icon.

---

## The HMAP Philosophy (Human-Mediated Agentic Process)

Project Hypatia is built on the principle of the **Human-Mediated Agentic Process (HMAP)**. This is a framework for human-AI collaboration that emphasizes human agency and control throughout the research lifecycle.

-   **Human as the Director**: You are the principal investigator. The AI is your highly capable, but subordinate, research assistant. It suggests, drafts, and analyzes, but you make the final decisions.
-   **AI as the Agent**: The AI agent (Gemini) executes complex tasks based on your instructions. This includes literature searches, hypothesis generation, data synthesis, and drafting content.
-   **Mediation as the Interface**: The Hypatia application is the "mediation" layer. It structures the interaction, provides tools for control (like fine-tuning and editing), and ensures the workflow remains logical and scientifically rigorous.

HMAP is not about letting an AI run the entire research process. It's about augmenting human intellect and creativity by offloading the tedious and time-consuming aspects of research to an AI partner, freeing you up to focus on critical thinking, interpretation, and discovery.

---

## The Scientific Method & Hypatia

The traditional scientific method is a systematic process for inquiry. Project Hypatia's 10-step workflow is designed to mirror and enhance this process.

| Scientific Method Stage | Corresponding Hypatia Step(s)                                   | How Hypatia Enhances It                                                                                               |
| :---------------------- | :-------------------------------------------------------------- | :-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| **Observation/Idea**      | `Dashboard` (Create Experiment)                                 | Provides a structured way to capture and describe your initial idea.                                                  |
| **Research Question**   | **1.** Research Question                                        | AI helps refine a broad idea into a specific, testable question.                                                      |
| **Background Research** | **2.** Literature Review                                        | Uses **Google Search grounding** for up-to-date, relevant sources and summarizes them with citations to identify gaps in existing knowledge.      |
| **Hypothesis**          | **3.** Hypothesis Formulation                                   | AI generates multiple, diverse hypotheses based on the literature, which you can then select or refine.               |
| **Experiment Design**   | **4.** Methodology Design & **5.** Data Collection Plan         | AI drafts a detailed, step-by-step experimental protocol and a corresponding data collection plan for you to approve. |
| **Experimentation**     | **6.** Experiment Runner / Data Synthesis                       | A flexible environment to generate data via AI-written code simulation, dynamic manual entry, or direct AI synthesis. |
| **Data Analysis**       | **7.** Data Analyzer                                            | AI performs statistical analysis on your data, providing a summary and interactive visualizations.                    |
| **Conclusion**          | **8.** Conclusion Drawing                                       | AI helps you interpret the results, state whether the hypothesis was supported, and discuss implications.             |
| **Communication**       | **9.** Peer Review Simulation & **10.** Publication Exporter | AI simulates a critical peer review to strengthen your arguments and then assembles the entire project into a draft paper. |

---

## Technology Stack

This project is built with modern, accessible web technologies.

-   **Frontend**: [React](https://react.dev/) (v19), HTML5, CSS3
-   **Styling**: [Bootstrap 5.3](https://getbootstrap.com/) & [Bootstrap Icons](https://icons.getbootstrap.com/)
-   **AI**: [Google Gemini API](https://ai.google.dev/) (`gemini-2.5-flash`)
-   **Charts**: [Chart.js](https://www.chartjs.org/)
-   **Client-Side Storage**: [Dexie.js](https://dexie.org/) (IndexedDB Wrapper)
-   **Markdown Rendering**: `marked` library

<br>

## Getting Started

To get a local copy up and running, simply follow these steps.

1.  Download the repository files (`index.html`, `index.tsx`, `README.md`, etc.).
2.  Open the `index.html` file in a modern web browser (like Chrome, Firefox, or Edge).
3.  That's it! The application will load and be ready to use.

<br>

## Usage Guide

### 1. The 10-Step Workflow

When you open the app, you start on the landing page and can navigate to the **Dashboard**. From there, you can create a new experiment or select an existing one. This will take you to the main workspace, which guides you through the scientific method. The AI's output at each step informs the next, creating a cohesive research narrative.

**Full Control**: You have full control over the AI's output.
-   On any step where text has been generated, you will see an **<i class="bi bi-pencil-square"></i> Edit** button.
-   Clicking it turns the text into an editable field. Make your changes and click the **<i class="bi bi-check-lg"></i> Save** button.
-   Your saved version becomes the new "official" output for that step and will be used to provide context for all future AI generations.

### 2. Fine-Tuning the AI

In each step of the workspace, you can click the **<i class="bi bi-sliders"></i> Fine-Tune AI** button. This opens a modal with parameters specific to that step, allowing you to guide the AI's behavior more precisely. For example, you can change the persona of the peer reviewer in Step 9, demand a more detailed methodology in Step 4, or ask for more novel hypotheses in Step 3.

### 3. The Experiment Runner (Step 6)

This step is a powerful, multi-modal hub for generating your experimental data. You will be prompted to choose one of three methods:

**A) AI-Generated Simulation:**
1.  **AI Writes the Code**: The AI will read your methodology from Step 4 and automatically write a JavaScript simulation as a starting point.
2.  **Run & Debug**: You can edit the code, use `console.log()` to print debug messages, and run the simulation directly in the browser.
3.  **Finish the Experiment**: The simulation must call the special `hypatia.finish(csvData, summary)` function to pass its results (in CSV string format) to the next step for analysis.
4.  **Auto-Fix with AI**: If your code has a runtime error, an **Auto-Fix with AI** button will appear, allowing the AI to attempt to correct the bug for you.

```javascript
// Example of the required finish function:
const csvData = "time,temperature\n0,20\n1,22\n2,25";
const summaryText = "Simulated temperature increase over 2 seconds.";

// This call passes the data to Step 7.
hypatia.finish(csvData, summaryText);
```

**B) Dynamic Manual Data Entry:**
-   If you've conducted your experiment offline, select this mode.
-   The AI will read your Data Collection Plan from Step 5 and generate a structured data entry table with the correct columns.
-   You can add or remove rows and enter your data directly into the form.
-   Once finished, click "Submit Data" to convert your entries into a CSV format and send it to Step 7 for analysis.

**C) AI Data Synthesis:**
-   This mode is ideal for theoretical exploration or when you want to proceed without running a full simulation.
-   The AI will read your methodology and data plans from the previous steps.
-   It will then generate a plausible, synthetic dataset that logically follows from your research design.
-   You can review the generated data and summary, then click "Use This Data" to pass it to Step 7.

---

## Contributing

Contributions are what make the open-source community such an amazing place to learn, inspire, and create. Any contributions you make are **greatly appreciated**.

If you have a suggestion that would make this better, please fork the repo and create a pull request. You can also simply open an issue with the tag "enhancement".

1.  Fork the Project
2.  Create your Feature Branch (`git checkout -b feature/AmazingFeature`)
3.  Commit your Changes (`git commit -m 'Add some AmazingFeature'`)
4.  Push to the Branch (`git push origin feature/AmazingFeature`)
5.  Open a Pull Request

---

## License

Distributed under the MIT License.
